---
layout: post
title: "м„ нҳ•лҢҖмҲҳн•ҷ Theorem + definition м •лҰ¬"
comments: true
categories: kernel
---

Friedbergм—җ лӮҳмҳӨлҠ” Definitionл“Өмқ„ м •лҰ¬н•ң л¬ём„ңмқҙлӢӨ.

**Theorem 1.10 (Replacement Theorem).** 

Let V be a vector space that is generated by a set G containing exactly n vectors, and let L be a linearly independent subset of V containing exactly m vectors. 

Then m вүӨ n and there exists a subset H of G containing exactly n вҲ’m vectors such that L вҲӘ H generates V.

**Definition** With these operations of addition and scalar multiplication, the set of all
polynomials with coefficients from F is a vector space, which we denote by **P(F)**.

**Definitions.** Let V and W be vector spaces, and let T: V вҶ’ W be linear. If N(T) and R(T) are finite-dimensional, then we define **the nullity of T**, denoted nullity(T), and the **rank of T**, denoted rank(T), to be the dimensions of N(T) and R(T), respectively.

**Definition** Let n be a nonnegative integer, and let $P_n(F)$ consist of all polynomials in P(F) having degree less than or equal to n.

Since the zero polynomial has degree вҲ’1, it is in $P_n(F)$

**Definition**  Let V be a finite-dimensional vector space. An **ordered basis** for V is a basis for V endowed with a specific order; that is, an ordered basis for V is a finite sequence of linearly independent vectors in V that
generates V.

**Definition** Let ОІ = {u1, u2, . . . , un} be an ordered basis for a finite-dimensional vector space V. For x вҲҲ V, let a1, a2, . . . , an be the unique scalars
such that

$$x =\Sigma_{i=1}^n a_iu_i.$$

We define the **coordinate vector of x relative to ОІ**, denoted $[x]_ОІ$

**Definition**. Using the notation above, we call the mГ—n matrix A defined by $A_{ij} = a_{ij}$ the matrix representation of T in the ordered bases ОІ
and Оі and write $A = [T]^Оі_ОІ$. If V = W and ОІ = Оі, then we write $A = [T]_ОІ.$

**Definition** Let A be an m Г— n matrix with entries from a field F.
We denote by $L_A\text{ the mapping }L_A : F_n вҶ’ F_m\text{ defined by }L_A(x) = A_x$ (the
matrix product of A and x)

for each column vector $x вҲҲ F_n$.

We call $L_A$ a **left-multiplication transformation**.

**Definitions.** Let V and W be vector spaces, and let T: V вҶ’ W be linear. We define the null space (or kernel) N(T) of T to be the set of all vectors x in V such that T(x) = 0; that is, N(T) = {x вҲҲ V: T(x) = 0 }.

We define the range (or image) R(T) of T to be the subset of W consisting of all images (under T) of vectors in V; that is, R(T) = {T(x) : x вҲҲ V}.

**Theorem 2.6.** Let V and W be vector spaces over F, and suppose that ${v_1, v_2, . . . , v_n}$ is a basis for V. 

For $w_1, w_2, . . . , w_n$ in W, there exists exactly
one linear transformation T: V вҶ’ W

such that $T(v_i) = w_i\text{ for }i = 1, 2, . . . , n.$

**Theorem 2.8.** Let V and W be finite-dimensional vector spaces with ordered bases ОІ and Оі, respectively, and let T,U: V вҶ’ W be linear transformations. Then

(a) $[T + U]^Оі_ОІ = [T]^Оі_ОІ + [U]^Оі_ОІ$ and

(b) $[aT]^Оі_ОІ = a[T]^Оі_ОІ$ for all scalars a.

## 2.4 INVERTIBILITY AND ISOMORPHISMS

**Definition** Let V and W be vector spaces, and let $T: V вҶ’ W$ be linear.

A function $U: W вҶ’ V$ is said to be an **inverse** of T if $TU = IW \& UT = IV.$

If T has an inverse, then T is said to be **invertible**.
if T is invertible, then the inverse of T is unique and is denoted by $T^{-1}$.

**Theorem 2.17** Let V and W be vector spaces, and let T: V вҶ’ W be
linear and invertible. Then TвҲ’1 : W вҶ’ V is linear.

**Definition**. Let A be an n Г— n matrix. Then A is invertible if there
exists an n Г— n matrix B such that AB = BA = I.

**Lemma**. Let T be an invertible linear transformation from V to W. Then
V is finite-dimensional if and only if W is finite-dimensional. In this case,
dim(V) = dim(W)

since nullity(T) = 0 and rank(T) = dim(R(T)) = dim(W).

**Theorem 2.18.** Let V and W be finite-dimensional vector spaces with ordered bases ОІ and Оі, respectively. Let T: V вҶ’ W be linear. Then T is invertible if and only if $[T]^Оі_
ОІ$ is invertible. Furthermore, $[T^{вҲ’1}]^ОІ_Оі = ([T]^Оі_ОІ)^{вҲ’1}.$

**Definitions** Let V and W be vector spaces. We say that V is **isomorphic** to W if there exists a linear transformation T: V вҶ’ W that is invertible. Such a linear transformation is called an **isomorphism** from V onto W.

**Theorem 2.19.** Let V and W be finite-dimensional vector spaces (over the same field). Then V is isomorphic to W if and only if dim(V) = dim(W).

**Theorem 2.20.** Let V and W be finite-dimensional vector spaces over F
of dimensions n and m, respectively, and let ОІ and Оі be ordered bases for V
and W, respectively. 

Then the function $ОҰ: L(V,W) вҶ’ M_{mГ—n}(F)\text{, defined by }
ОҰ(T) = [T]^Оі_
ОІ\text{ for }T вҲҲ L(V,W)$, is an isomorphism.

**Definition.** Let ОІ be an ordered basis for an n-dimensional vector space V over the field F. **The standard representation of V with respect to ОІ** is the function $ПҶ_ОІ : V вҶ’ F^n\text{ defined by }ПҶ_ОІ(x) = [x]_ОІ$ for each x вҲҲ V.

**Theorem 2.21.** For any finite-dimensional vector space V with ordered basis ОІ, $ПҶ_ОІ$ is an isomorphism.

## 2.5 THE CHANGE OF COORDINATE MATRIX

Theorem 2.22. Let ОІ and $ОІ'$ be two ordered bases for a finite-dimensional vector space V, and let 
$Q = [I_V]^ОІ_{ОІ'}$. Then

(a) Q is invertible.

(b) For any $v вҲҲ V, [v]_ОІ = Q[v]_{ОІ'}$ .

**Defintition.** The matrix Q defined in Theorem 2.22 is called **a change of coordinate matrix.**

мқҙлҹ¬н•ң VлӮҙм—җм„ң VлЎңмқҳ м„ нҳ• м—°мӮ°мқ„ **Linear operator** on Vлқјкі  л¶ҖлҘёлӢӨ.

**Theorem 2.23.** Let T be a linear operator on a finite-dimensional vector space V, and let ОІ and ОІ' be ordered bases for V. Suppose that Q is the change of coordinate matrix that changes ОІ'-coordinates into ОІ-coordinates. 

Then

$$[T]_{ОІ'} = Q^{вҲ’1}[T]_ОІQ.$$

**Definition.** Let A and B be matrices in $M_{nГ—n}(F)$. We say that B is similar to A if there exists an invertible matrix Q such that

$$B = Q^{вҲ’1}AQ.$$

## 2.6 DUAL SPACES

In this section, we are concerned exclusively with linear transformations from a vector space V into its field of scalars F.

**Definition.** For a vector space V over F, we define the dual space of V to be the vector space L(V, F), denoted by $V^вҲ—$.

**Theorem 2.24.** Suppose that V is a finite-dimensional vector space with the ordered basis $ОІ = {x_1, x_2, . . . , x_n}$. 

Let $f_i (1 вүӨ i вүӨ n)$ be the ith coordinate
function with respect to ОІ as just defined, and let $ОІ^вҲ— = {f_1, f_2, . . . , f_n}.$

Then $ОІ^вҲ—$ is an ordered basis for $V^вҲ—$, and, for any $f вҲҲ V^вҲ—$, we have
$$
f = \Sigma_{i=1}^n f(x_i)f_i
$$

**Definition.** Using the notation of Theorem 2.24, we call the ordered basis $ОІ^вҲ— = {f_1, f_2, . . . , f_n}$ of $V^вҲ—$ that satisfies $f_i(x_j) = Оҙ_{ij} (1 вүӨ i, j вүӨ n)$ the
dual basis of ОІ.

**Theorem 2.25.** Let V and W be finite-dimensional vector spaces over F with ordered bases ОІ and Оі, respectively. For any linear transformation T: V вҶ’ W,

The mapping $T^t : W^вҲ— вҶ’ V^вҲ—$ defined by $T^t(g) = gT \text{ for all }g вҲҲ W^вҲ—$ 

is a linear transformation with the property that $[T_t]^{ОІ^вҲ—}_{Оі^вҲ—} = ([T]^Оі_ОІ)^t.$

The linear transformation $T^t$ defined in Theorem 2.25 is called the transpose of T.

We now concern ourselves with demonstrating that any finite-dimensional vector space V can be identified in a natural way with its double dual $V^{вҲ—вҲ—}$. There is, in fact, an isomorphism between V and $V^{вҲ—вҲ—}$ that does not depend on any choice of bases for the two vector spaces.


For a vector x вҲҲ V, we define $\hat{x}: V^вҲ— вҶ’ F \text{ by } \hat{x}(f) = f(x) \text{ for every }f вҲҲ V^вҲ—.$

It is easy to verify that $\hat{x}$ is a linear functional on $V^вҲ—,\text{ so }\hat{x} вҲҲ V^{вҲ—вҲ—}.$ 

The correspondence x вҶ” $\hat{x}$ allows us to define the desired isomorphism between V and $V^{вҲ—вҲ—}$.

**Theorem 2.26.** Let V be a finite-dimensional vector space, and define $ПҲ: V вҶ’ V^{вҲ—вҲ—}\text{ by }ПҲ(x) = \hat{x}.$ Then ПҲ is an isomorphism

## 3. Elementary Matrix Operations and Systems of Linear Equations

## 3.1 ELEMENTARY MATRIX OPERATIONS AND ELEMENTARY MATRICES

**Definitions.** Let A be an m Г— n matrix. Any one of the following three operations on the rows [columns] of A is called an **elementary row [column] operation:**

(1) interchanging any two rows [columns] of A;

(2) multiplying any row [column] of A by a nonzero scalar;

(3) adding any scalar multiple of a row [column] of A to another row [column].

Any of these three operations is called an **elementary operation.** Elementary operations are of **type 1**, **type 2**, or **type 3** depending on whether they
are obtained by (1), (2), or (3).

**Definition.** An n Г— n **elementary matrix** is a matrix obtained by performing an elementary operation on $I_n$. The elementary matrix is said to be of **type 1, 2, or 3** according to whether the elementary operation performed on In is a type 1, 2, or 3 operation, respectively.

**Theorem 3.1.** Let $A вҲҲ M_{mГ—n}(F)$, and suppose that B is obtained from A by performing an elementary row [column] operation. Then there exists an m Г— m [n Г— n] elementary matrix E such that B = EA [B = AE]. In fact, E is obtained from $I_m$ [$I_n$] by performing the same elementary row [column]
operation as that which was performed on A to obtain B. Conversely, if E is an elementary m Г— m [n Г— n] matrix, then EA [AE] is the matrix obtained from A by performing the same elementary row [column] operation as that which produces E from $I_m$ [$I_n$].

**Theorem 3.2.** Elementary matrices are invertible, and the inverse of an elementary matrix is an elementary matrix of the same type.

## 3.2 THE RANK OF A MATRIX AND MATRIX INVERSES

In this section, **we define the rank of a matrix**. We then use elementary operations to compute the rank of a matrix and a linear transformation. The section concludes with a procedure for computing the inverse of an invertible
matrix.

**Definition.** If $A вҲҲ M_{mГ—n}(F)$, we define the rank of A, denoted rank(A), to be the rank of the linear transformation $L_A : F_n вҶ’ F_m.$

**Theorem 3.3.** Let T: V вҶ’ W be a linear transformation between finite dimensional vector spaces, and let ОІ and Оі be ordered bases for V and W, respectively. Then 

$$rank(T) = rank([T]^Оі_ОІ).$$

**Theorem 3.4**. Let A be an m Г— n matrix. If P and Q are invertible m Г— m and n Г— n matrices, respectively, then

(a) rank(AQ) = rank(A),

(b) rank(PA) = rank(A), and therefore,

(c) rank(PAQ) = rank(A).

**Theorem 3.5.** The rank of any matrix equals the maximum number of its linearly independent columns; that is, the rank of a matrix is the dimension of the subspace generated by its columns.

**Theorem 3.6.** Let A be an mГ—n matrix of rank r. Then r вүӨ m, r вүӨ n, and, by means of a finite number of elementary row and column operations, A can be transformed into the matrix

$$
D = \begin{pmatrix}
    I_r & O_1 \\
    O_2 & O_3 
\end{pmatrix}
$$

where O1, O2, and O3 are zero matrices. Thus $D_{ii}$ = 1 for i вүӨ r and $D_{ij} = 0$ otherwise.

**мҰқлӘ… кјӯ лӢӨмӢң ліјкІғ**

**Theorem 3.7.** Let T: V вҶ’ W and U: W вҶ’ Z be linear transformations on finite-dimensional vector spaces V, W, and Z, and let A and B be matrices such that the product AB is defined. Then

(a) rank(UT) вүӨ rank(U).

(b) rank(UT) вүӨ rank(T).

(c) rank(AB) вүӨ rank(A).

(d) rank(AB) вүӨ rank(B).

**Definition.** Let A and B be m Г— n and m Г— p matrices, respectively.
**By the augmented matrix (A|B), we mean the mГ— (n + p) matrix (A B)**, that is, the matrix whose first n columns are the columns of A, and whose last p columns are the columns of B.

## 3.3 SYSTEMS OF LINEAR EQUATIONSвҖ”THEORETICAL ASPECTS

System (S) is called **consistent** if its solution
set is nonempty; otherwise it is called **inconsistent.**

**Definitions.** A system Ax = b of m linear equations in n unknowns is said to be **homogeneous** if b = 0 . Otherwise the system is said to be **nonhomogeneous**.

**Theorem 3.8.** Let Ax = 0 be a homogeneous system of m linear equations in n unknowns over a field F. Let K denote the set of all solutions to Ax = 0. Then $K = N(L_A)$; hence K is a subspace of Fn of dimension $n вҲ’ rank(L_A) = n вҲ’ rank(A)$.

**Corollary.** If m < n, the system Ax = 0 has a nonzero solution.

м§Ҳл¬ё

**Theorem 3.9.** Let K be the solution set of a system of linear equations Ax = b, and let $K_H$ be the solution set of the corresponding homogeneous system Ax = 0 . Then for any solution s to Ax = b

$$K = {s} + K_H = {s + k : k вҲҲ K_H}.$$

**Theorem 3.10.** Let Ax = b be a system of n linear equations in n unknowns. **If A is invertible, then the system has exactly one solution**, namely, $A^{вҲ’1}b$. Conversely, if the system has exactly one solution, then A is invertible

**Theorem 3.11.** Let Ax = b be a system of linear equations. Then the system is consistent if and only if rank(A) = rank(A|b).

**Theorem 3.13.** Let Ax = b be a system of m linear equations in n unknowns, and let C be an invertible m Г— m matrix. Then the system (CA)x = Cb is equivalent to Ax = b.

**Definition.** A matrix is said to be in reduced row echelon form if the following three conditions are satisfied.

(a) Any row containing a nonzero entry precedes any row in which all the entries are zero (if any).

(b) The first nonzero entry in each row is the only nonzero entry in its
column.

(c) The first nonzero entry in each row is 1 and it occurs in a column to the right of the first nonzero entry in the preceding row.

**Theorem 3.14.** Gaussian elimination transforms any matrix into its reduced row echelon form.

**Theorem 3.15.** Let Ax = b be a system of r nonzero equations in n unknowns. Suppose that rank(A) = rank(A|b) and that (A|b) is in reduced row echelon form. Then

(a) rank(A) = r.

(b) If the general solution obtained by the procedure above is of the form

$$s = s_0 + t_1u_1 + t_2u_2 + В· В· В· + t_{nвҲ’r}u_{nвҲ’r},$$

then ${u_1, u_2, . . . , u_{nвҲ’r}}$ is a basis for the solution set of the corresponding homogeneous system, and s0 is a solution to the original system.

**Theorem 3.16.** Let A be an m Г— n matrix of rank r, where r > 0, and let B be the reduced row echelon form of A. Then


(a) The number of nonzero rows in B is r.

(b) For each i = 1, 2, . . . , r, there is a column bji of B such that bji = ei.

(c) The columns of A numbered j1, j2, . . . , jr are linearly independent.

(d) For each k = 1, 2, . . . n, if column k of B is d1e1+d2e2+В· В· В·+drer, then column k of A is d1aj1 + d2aj2 + В· В· В· + drajr .

**Theorem 4.1.** The function det: $M_{2Г—2}(F) вҶ’ F$ is a linear function of each row of a 2 Г— 2 matrix when the other row is held fixed. That is, if u, v, and w are in F2 and k is a scalar, then
$$
det\begin{pmatrix}
    u+kv \\
    w
\end{pmatrix} =det\begin{pmatrix}
    u \\
    w
\end{pmatrix}
+kdet\begin{pmatrix}
    v \\
    w
\end{pmatrix}
$$

## 4.3 PROPERTIES OF DETERMINANTS

**Theorem 4.5.** If $A вҲҲ M_{nГ—n}(F)$ and B is a matrix obtained from A by interchanging any two rows of A, then det(B) = вҲ’det(A).

**Theorem 4.7.** For any $A,B вҲҲ M_{nГ—n}(F), det(AB) = det(A)В· det(B).$

**Theorem 4.8.** For any $A вҲҲ M_{nГ—n}(F), det(A^t) = det(A).$

**Theorem 4.9** (CramerвҖҷs Rule). Let Ax = b be the matrix form of a system of n linear equations in n unknowns, where $x = (x_1, x_2, . . . , x_n)^t$. If $det(A) \neq 0$, then this system has a unique solution, and for each k (k = 1, 2, . . . , n),

$$
x_k = \frac{det(M_k)}{det(A)},
$$

where $M_k$ is the n Г— n matrix obtained from A by replacing column k of A by b.
